Applied Statistics Course Notes
    -Visit www.goformative.com for practice questions
    -Use Cisco AnyConnect to connect to NJIT VPN*
    -

Introduction- 1/25/2021
    Graphs for Categorical/Qualitative Variables:
        Consists of attributes, categories, labels or non-numeric entries. // e.g. pie chart, bar graph
    Graphs for Quantitative Variables
        Consists of numerical measurements or units // e.g. histogram, stemplot

    -The distribution of a categorical variable essentially lists the categories and gives the "count" or percent of individuals who fall into each category.

Constructing a Stem and Leaf
    1. Divide each number (xi) into two parts: a stem, consisting of the leading digits, and a leaf, consisting of the remaining digit.
    2. List the stem values in a vertical column. The stems are listed in order, starting with the smallest stem and ending with the largest.
    3. Record the leaf for each observation beside its stem. (The leaf for each observation is placed at the appropriate stem row)
    4. Write the leaf unit on the display.

    Split Stems
        -The purpose of the stem and leaf is to desacribe the data distribution graphically.
        -If the data are too clustered, we can split and have multiple stems, thereby increasing the number of stems.

Histogram
    1. Variable of interest is placed on the horizontal axis
    2. Frequency or relative frequency is placed on the vertical axis
    3. Shown by drawing a rectangle
    
    Examining Distributions
        Symmetric (Both sides are more or less the same when the graph is folded vertically down the middle)

Outliers
    An important kind of deviation is an outlier. 
        
Mean and Median
    -Median is the measure of central tendency, difined as the number that divides a ranked data set into two halves; 2(n+1)/4
    For an odd number of observations:
        Median is the middle number, use 2(n+1)/4
        Ex) For an odd number of observations (n=9):
                2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
                    Median will be 2(9+1)/4 = the 5th observation (6)
    
Variance
    -A measure of variability that uses all the data
    -Measured in terms of square of the original units of measurement
    -Mean of the squares of the deviations is called variance 
    -Variance calculated for sample data is called sample variance and is denoted by s^2
    - Obervation - mean = deviation (sum of squares for population variance)

Sample Variance (Google/Watch Video**)

Sum of the squares - square of the sum

The values of the variance and the standard deviation are never negative.
The larger the value of variance or standard deviation 
If varainc